We're going to do now
We're going to talk about the order of results for operations
So
before we talked about the order results for collections
now
we're going to talk about the order of results that are affected by the operations that you may happen to choose
And again
we're going to look it up a bunch of examples
This is actually kind of fun is lots of interesting things here
As was the case earlier
if you take a look at the ex21 folder in my GitHub repository
you'll find all the examples there
So
certain intermediate operations
affect ordering behavior and we'll take a look and see what they are
We'll start by looking at sorehead
unordered
Skip and limit and I'll demonstrate some of these things in the context of several examples that kind of difference of each other
So once again
we'll start by looking at some input
In this case
We're going to have
A list created that has the values
23142 in that order
And that will be the encounter order and that's because a list is both ordered and non-unique
So we have to worry about having duplicates
The next thing we do is we call distinct
So we create a parallel stream from that original list and then we called distinct and distinct is a stateful
intermediate operation
and that will
of course
go ahead and remove duplicate elements
So now will end up with the stream that will be busy p2314
And then we're also going to go ahead and limit the amount of processing
It takes place here to some parameter passed into the limit intermediate operation
So let's assume s output limit had the value of two or something like that
That would then also be a stateful
intermediate operation
And that means we're only going to process that many elements in the Stream
So it's what color short-circuiting stateful
intermediate operation
Now
after all of this stuff will end up with a result that will be eight followed by 4, and that's because we're going to end up with with the duplicates are removed
And
This will be the encounter order because everything we saw along the way preserved
the ordering property
However
the performance of this code will be rather slow because limit and distinct have so-called stateful semantics which require additional processing in parallel streams
So be aware that the choice of the interview
Operation can affect the behavior as well as also affect the performance as well
Now
if we go ahead and insert the unordered call after we make a parallel stream
this will end up allowing the code to run more efficiently because there's no need to preserve the encounter order
So
therefore
these animated operations like limit and distinct can incur less overhead
And that's not a good thing at the wind because we made things faster by not caring about the order in which things occur
Since the encounter order doesn't have to be maintained
the result could be eight followed by 4 or 4 elevate
It doesn't really matter
Certain terminal operations
also
affect ordering Behavior
So we already saw how intermediate
operations
affected the Behavior
Now
we're going to take a look and see how criminal operations affect the ordering Behavior
The most obvious Journal operation
that will affect ordering behavior is the for each ordered method
And the whole purpose of
for each ordered is to ensure that we end up with ordering preserve
We want to preserve the encounter order
So you can take a look here and see that if we
if we write this code and we use the arraylist to be 2314 to run this thing and parallel
We use for each ordered then we'll be able to have the results
The order
However
we have to be very careful here because this list is only going to support unsynchronized insertion and removal of elements because it's just a plain old Ray list
Now
the thing is so wacky here
Is that even though we're using a parallel stream here
We will still end up getting results that don't have race conditions
and that's because the results must appear in encounter order
Now this is really strange
This will work properly using for each ordered
but it will be slow
and that's because there's implicit synchronization
It's performed in the for each ordered method
Were you to use the for each method here
then chaos and Insanity with him soon because we would be simultaneously accessing and unsynchronized
arraylist
Let's go take a look at how you could use for each properly that member for each does not attempt to preserve encounter order
And instead what we do here as we create the results variable to be a concurrent linked to rather than an arraylist
If you showed here and this code will work properly because results will be properly synchronized but the order doesn't have to be preserved
So it might be faster than for each ordered
It might be about the same because we're still using synchronized data structure
Is it just kind of depends on whether concurrently accuse synchronizers any faster than for each ordered linked for each ordered synchronizer
So you can have to pick your poison there
I would probably not recommend writing any of this code with a for each Loop and a results
Do our results list
It's just there better ways to do it using collect
So I'm just kind of showing you that the ordering of for each
And for each all difference
Okay
So that basically wraps up our discussion about ordering results for operations
which is one of the things that you can
in fact
control in Java Carol Streams
even though ordering a processing is not really something that you can control